# HW0
<p>My is Ashanti Long and I am a junior at the College of Chareston. I getting my Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Math</p>


# Reflections on FOSS

<div style = "color:red">
    
 The Catheral and and the Bazzar starts off very  well I think. In the beginning it gives a detailed summary of the development of the Linux operating software. The concept of open source development has two methods: the Cathedral method, where a large coporation hires alot of programmers to develop software, they want to  keeps the source code secret, and charges large amounts to recoup it costs, not from the original product development, but from the expected legacy problems, technical support, bug fixing, software updates, etc. And then we have the bazaar method, which is the main focus of our class which  encourages open source software. Open source software encourages a programmer or team such as ourself  within the  community to gain the nesscary power to  maintain and lift  the software to keep it relevant. Per the authtor if things continue the way they are the Cathedral method will not be able to compete with the Bazaar method. In the Cathedral method the programmers must be hired and bought, the bazaar method the hackers are like magnets they are attracted to a problem, become more dedicated in fixing the problem for knowldge and practice , revisions and bugs are handled at internet speed. The author contnue to talka  out how many company business model has adopted the open source devleopment method(bazaar). As you read further into the book the auther  explains the hacker ethic and communtiy and how everything works. It was cool to understand the meaning of"hacker" v.s. "cracker" and the true meaning of free software. The author say in the future  that open source software will make deep in-roads into the Fortune-500 companies. That their investmeent in thier hardware and investment being dependent on one software company to make changes is stupid.  Open source software would provide a proliferation of hacker communities willing to constantly update older software. The author appears to know his stuff and progressively throughout the book the author lets it leak out that he is one of the hacker community and is a player/spokesman in this software battle I found this book a real eye-opener, can Microsoft's workforce continue to support software like Windows 2000 with 60 million lines of code, as opposed to Linux taking advantage of a worldwide army of hackers reporting bugs, writing patches, and keeping hardware drivers updated. Time will tell. Then after reading the book me and my team got together and tried to figure out our own open source to work on. We met up on zoom and was kind of overwhelemed just by the many possablities out there that we could choose from. Like how do we narrow it down to three choice and how do we chose one to work on. So we asked ourselves three question : how active is the open source, is there devlopment zone and contribution very detailed and documented on how to make contrubtion and how many issue they post and our these possible issue we can fix. By doing that we limited choose to some we like for example : zulip and mifos . These project had excellent documentation on how to contribute and what ways one person can contribute and it was in programs we liked.
 
</div>


# "Reflections on Open Source in Today's World"
<div style = "color:red">

I read an article about an infuential sercurity devloper named Michael Boelen. He is very active in computer security. He is the author of the popular open source security tools Rootkit Hunter (rkhunter) and Lynis, and he blogs about Linux security on Linux Audit and evaluates security tools on Linux Security Expert. He also formed a company named CISOfy around the Lynis tool to help organizations with security audits of multiple operating systems. Having used Lynis, I was eager to learn more about Michael to learn about his views on Linux, security, and open source software. The following interview has been edited for clarity and conciseness. Micheal talked about how open source is a way to express creativity in software while solving a problem. With the right license, it allows almost anyone to use the software, typically for free. That is also important, as not everyone has the luxury to pay for software or related services. The Dutch are known to be humble, outspoken, and in love with things being "gratis." This word is the same in Latin and means "for thanks" or "for nothing." While the F in FOSS does not refer to this type of free, He  believe it is a powerful driver to bring the software into more people's hands. That is valuable in itself, as it can open the gates to more feedback, ideas, or even code improvements. His  real start with open source was in 2003 with rkhunter. He did not have enough shell scripting experience to help the chkrootkit project when he found it showed several false positives on a FreeBSD system. Instead, he decided it was a great opportunity to learn shell scripting and, at the same time, build a useful tool. As a bonus challenge, I thought it was a good idea to make it POSIX compatible. This way, it could run on Linux, but also on BSD, Solaris, and others. After view year he devloped Lynis  In 2007, while being between two jobs for a month, he talked about how he  wanted to start a new project that helped him in his own job of improving security aspects of Linux and Unix-based systems. Existing tooling seemed to be outdated, so basically he wanted a fresh start. There are many security tools available. I'm reviewing many of them as part of the Linux Security Expert project. After looking at hundreds of tools, hE founded that Lynis has something that many of them don't have. The difference is "simplicity," or making the tool as easy to use as possible. From this experience, I can also share that it is really hard to make a tool simple to use. When it comes to promoting Lynis, I try to diversify things. Sometimes it is writing about it in a blog post or speaking at a conference. At the same time, the value of the tool itself does the real promotion. People tend to share the tool with others because they like it. He talked about how he strongly believe in the value of promotion. It shows your creation to more people, resulting in increased usage and suggestions. So, if you are a tool author, don't skip this part. Lastly he talked abut if you want to get into security then he would suggest implementing security measures on your personal systems or any test devices that you have available. If you don't know where to start, then Lynis might be a good inspiration for what can be done when it comes to Linux security. You also mentioned the Linux Audit blog, which might help readers get more familiar with the subject.
</div>
